we all have these Notions in our head oh
there's this new shiny object Tick Tock
we should be spending all our time on
that and I'm not saying you shouldn't
leverage Tick Tock but there's all these
old boring ugly channels that still
produce massive rois you should be doing
those first because they're proven and
then spend a portion of the time on Tick
Tock and whatever else is new that
people are talking about
hello everyone and welcome to another
episode of Assassins here so I'm your
host George casino this and today I'm
very happy and excited
should I say honored as well I don't
know maybe uh to be joined by Neil Patel
Neo is a co-founder of NP digital the
Wall Streets Journal calls him a top
influencer on the web form says he's one
of the top 10 marketers and Entrepreneur
magazine says he created one of the
100 most brilliant companies I don't
know you know which company they refer
to you will tell me because I know
you've launched many many companies uh
Neil is a New York Time Times
bestselling author and was recognized as
a top 100 entrepreneur under the age of
30 by President Obama and a top 100
entrepreneur under the age of 35 by the
United Nations Neil welcome
ah thanks for having me
so needless to say that as you know most
people I guess according to marketing I
started my career by reading your blog
and so you were always this iconic
figure I guess for for me and it's kind
of uh a role model as I was like gay
getting into marketing and trying to to
figure things out I will not ask you the
first question we asked most people who
who join us here at the podcast to share
a few things about your background
because I guess people can you know
watch one of the many interviews we've
you've done uh to learn more about you
but I will ask about npg's NP digital so
for people who are not aware of NP
digital can you please share a few
things about nvids and vegetable uh who
you are and who gets the most value out
of the service
sure so NP digital is a global
performance marketing agency we help
people and companies all around the
world increase their traffic to their
website generate more leads generate
more sales whether it's through paid ads
or social media or media buys or SEO or
conversion optimization or email
marketing
um the list goes on and on
and yeah we've been helping a lot of
Enterprise companies and been having a
blast from it from you know like the
adobe's of the world to LinkedIn to
um you know Panasonic that we recently
just closed but we have tons of big
Brands a core hotels CNN ESPN
PWC Intuit Etc
and the growth has been the growth of
the agency I mean has been like
impressive right and one of the things
that you sell very often and I'm really
interested in that is the fact that you
actually you know when you say that we
have presence in these countries you
actually have local operations there who
serve you know clients from these
countries which I think makes it like a
very big difference in how NP digital is
perceived in these countries right
yes we have we'll have local operations
in the countries so for example we have
a team in Brazil team in India and the
team in India isn't Outsourcing for
America to India the team in India is to
service companies in India like we work
with Tada Tada has some of the biggest
companies like they own Range Rover and
jaguar uh I think Jaguar was Austin
Martin I think Range Rover Austin Martin
uh they own Taj hotels they own a lot of
businesses it's one of the uh largest
companies in the world but yeah we have
local operations we have that in many
countries like we have you know someone
in Singapore uh to help with aipac we
have people in Malaysia now we have
people in Philippines and Australia uh
we added France recently Italy Spain
um we're going to release Germany soon
and Netherlands soon we're interviewing
right now my co-founder as we're doing
this interview is interviewing someone
to potentially lead up uh Mina for us
which is Middle East and North Africa so
but yeah we have people in these regions
to service that market
I think that's a great lesson for for
agencies who want to expand globally
um I would like to ask you I would I
would like to start from this question
you're doing this for almost I know if
not over two decades now
have you seen anything like the changes
we are experiencing right now I'm
referring to generative AI more
specifically you know content and
Google's SG
uh we haven't seen tons of changes in
Impact yet like when we're looking at
analytics we're seeing websites still
getting a lot of traffic we're seeing
search volumes still being great on
places like Google and even Bing we're
not seeing Bing take away really any
market share from Google from what we're
seeing based on the actual analytics and
data because we track a lot of websites
um
we do think in the long run it will have
an impact but we think the impact will
be positive and when I say positive that
doesn't mean a website will get more
traffic or even less traffic what I mean
positive is it's going to create
a better experience for the Searchers
which will cause the platforms to be
more popular as well
and this generative AI can also help
companies with things like creatives so
when you're doing advertising campaigns
it costs so much money to film ads in
different countries and with different
backgrounds and doing different
variations but with AI you can start
spinning up different backgrounds and
images and changes for pennies on the
dollar
um the other thing that is it can also
create Revenue potential so for example
there's this company called Alpha
insights Alpha insights uh is a research
firm and they'll pay people for
consultations like calls for an hour or
two hours and they may give you a
thousand dollars an hour five hundred or
five thousand hours whatever you
negotiate with them and companies hire
them to get feedback on whatever
industry they're interested in
so for example literally two hours
before this interview okay I got hit up
from someone at Alpha insights and I get
hit up by them every once in a while and
they wanted me to do a call with the
management consulting company in the
Middle East
I didn't do it we couldn't come to an
agreement on pricing and I also didn't
care to do it so I just told him give me
ten thousand dollars for the hour I knew
they were gonna say no but if they said
yes I'm like okay I'll jump on a call
with our but I was also with my children
and helping get ready for school so
getting two three thousand dollars for
the hour it's a lot of money don't get
me wrong but I'd rather see my kids grow
up and be there for them than make more
money because I don't believe money is
everything in this world
but the way he chose me was he used Chad
gbt and asked the question on I'm
looking for information on social media
and social media engagement what expert
should I talk to to get advice on this
and chat gpt's response was talk to Neil
Patel
I'm not saying I'm I'm popular I'm
famous I'm the one people should be
talking to more so the point I'm trying
to make is you can also generate
business from these tools as well yes it
may take away traffic from your business
but it can also provide business to you
as well for example if they ask chat GPT
what agencies I can talk to within these
regions if chat GPT gave mine as an
answer and you optimize for Chad GPT
which creates a new form of marketing
that can also help you produce more
income as well
I wonder if they had if uh this person
had been on uh when like he conducted
the search or was that you know an
answer given by child GPT based on the
data it was trained on I guess you know
it was from chat GPT it was not from
Bing yeah yeah I mean
I get it I think that's that's a
difficult pitch to make to our clients
at least you know that let's let's
optimize for that now because it's a
completely different game right it's not
about let's optimize for that now
um technically it is it depends how you
perceive that it's more so let's
optimize for all the existing stuff
because it produces results and let's
also spend a small portion of the time
optimizing for Chad GPT and being
embarred when they're using uh their
generative AI so it's a combination of
both it's a very small percentage that
should go to chege PT et cetera because
it's not proven yet on how much revenue
can drive a business and businesses are
Roi based but there's nothing wrong with
spending ten thousand dollars a year
twenty thousand dollars a year if you're
a really massive Corporation you know
even a hundred thousand dollars a year
if you're a company that's doing 10
billion a year in profit what's spending
a few hundred thousand dollars a year on
some of these platforms and just being
prepared the risk is low
foreign
a couple of weeks ago actually and
I thought oh man this is another
opportunity right for for plug games I I
don't think that as of now they have any
paid plugins or anything like that but
that's a great opportunity for example I
know that you use
um uh for for NP digital tools like uber
suggest and uh recently you you acquired
another tool answer the public as a
vehicle uh for growth and I've you know
uh heard you speak about that and I
think this is a brilliant strategy
actually but I'm thinking about you know
what like moving forward why not like
launching a plugin for that's dedicated
to to charging PT do you think that
could be also like a a way to get in
front of you know these people's eyes I
mean the users now
potentially it depends on the adoption
yeah
but I I I I don't know the right or
wrong answer uh I think a lot of this
stuff sadly is going to be
experimentation you try three four five
different approaches and you see what
sticks and you double down on the stuff
that's producing Roi or at least in the
beginning getting some traction
that's a good point uh yeah
um now you started your career
um as an SEO professional and then of
course got into pretty much everything
uh around online marketing right do you
think there is a future or SEO in online
marketing and if yes
how does that future look like
there is a future of SEO and online
marketing it's not that people have been
saying it's dead for ages we built the
21st fastest growing company in the
United States according to Inc magazine
uh through SEO now we've done many
things since then to continually grow
SEO will not build you the biggest
company in the world or anything like
that normal paid advertising but you're
gonna have to take an omni Channel
approach you're gonna have to SEO you're
gonna do email marketing people say
email marketing has been dead for ages
and people don't use email yet MailChimp
sold for double-digit billions so is
email marketing really dead of MailChimp
soul for that much or look at clavio
clavio filed to go public
and uh the what I read online is they
either do 600 or 700 million a year in
Revenue email marketing can be dead if
they're doing that much in Revenue right
but we all have these Notions in our
head oh there's this new shiny object
Tick Tock we should be spending all our
time on that and I'm not saying you
shouldn't leverage Tick Tock but there's
all these old boring ugly channels that
still produce massive rois you should be
doing those first because they're proven
and then spend a portion of the time on
Tick Tock and whatever else is new that
people are talking about
the reason I'm asking this question and
I agree with you like every
I I mean usually at the end of the year
towards the end of the year you see
these articles like you know all these
headlines or something like that that
SEO is dead and so and so forth so
I don't know
I agree with you there is a future for
for SEO but at the same time I expect
you know things to change especially
with Google's you know SG
um by the way have you have you tried uh
edgy
I think it's great
um I love it the user experiences better
but there's still tons and tons of
queries where they don't provide that
people said SEO is going to change
drastically with Knowledge Graph because
they're answering a lot of questions for
you and giving you the data that's true
people are getting a lot less clicks but
there's still a lot of Revenue to be
made and funny enough uh it depends on
the industry as well when you talk about
clicks I'm talking about percentage-wise
of the people searching
but in total Google has continually
driven more clicks to websites each and
every single year since their existence
according to Danny Sullivan who works at
Google
one thing I you know one thought I have
about that is assuming that websites get
less traffic right maybe that's that's a
possible outcome right
that may not be a bad thing after all if
we think that you know what after all
these like interaction and quote unquote
clatter on the serp if someone ends up
visiting your website after all maybe
there is a higher intent there maybe
there is a stronger intent either to
learn something or to like take some
sort of action with a monetary value do
you see that happening I mean intent
being like more uh Stronger from visits
so check this out so we did brand recall
studies when you look at like Knowledge
Graph and sometimes Google give me an
answer and saying what site they got it
from we've seen when we do brand recall
studies that even though people aren't
clicking on your website when they're
seeing your name seeing the answer
seeing the company logo or not logo
company name uh it's causing more
overall Revenue than not being there we
think something similar is going to
happen with uh Ai and search engines
so you have to be present right this is
this is the point
yes because just because someone doesn't
go to your website but if they're
getting the knowledge from you and it's
clear that it's coming from you still
helps with branding you see all these TV
commercials and you see Nike everywhere
around the whole world right not just in
the US not just in Europe they're
literally around the whole world
Nike's not getting clicks through the
websites from a lot of these ads but
that branding has helped Nike become one
of the most popular shoe companies in
the world if not the most popular shoe
company in the world yeah can I ask you
though let's say that uh director of SEO
at a SAS companies listening to this
episode and most likely they are
confused maybe even concerned about the
announcements and the new St and all
that you know stuff
what would you advise them like keep
doing the same stuff or keep in mind
that what you're doing what what you've
been doing so far probably won't work in
a while so you should probably have to
shift your focus and kind of rethink
your strategy
no so it's a big unknown on what
percentage of the serps it's going to
impact and how it's going to impact all
different Industries including SAS if I
were them I'd be spending 90 95 of my
time on what's been working in the past
including traditional SEO and then let's
say if you're just talking about SEO
spend 90 95 of the time on nutritional
SEO carve about five percent of the time
to have your team learn about the
changes that are happening and figure
out unique strategies that they can use
to adapt that's how it all would
structure it and that's a good point
because I mean we had questions from
some of our clients kind of rushed you
know let's change the strategy and so on
and so forth and I mean
we wouldn't advise that because we don't
know what this thing will will be right
it's still in beta and the public
version may be completely different than
what we see right now like how can you
optimize for that how can you can you
prepare for that so check this out did
you know that Google generates over 30
billion dollars a year from publisher
sites
like AdSense sites running AdSense did
you know over 30 billion dollars a year
it's a little bit more than 30 billion
okay so if it's 30 billion dollars right
and I got this data from statista which
is I'm assuming they're just pulling it
from Google's uh earnings report
if it's 30 plus billion dollars a year
how do you think most these Publishers
who are running AdSense get their
traffic
what do you think how do you think musty
sites get their traffic
when you see sites with AdSense how do
you think they get their traffic
Google
or yeah but they're buying it from
Google or do you think it's organic
if I had to guess I would say organic
right because if they're buying it from
Google it would be really expensive to
get a click over your website and then
only a small percentage will click on
the ads which makes it really hard for
that to be profitable right most of them
get their traffic organically
if Google just crushed all the organic
rankings that 30 billion dollars
wouldn't go to zero but it'll go down
drastically do you think they would just
do that and potentially affect their
stock in a really negative way when
they're a trillion dollar company
no it doesn't logically make sense
would they make changes over time if
they know how they can replace that
Revenue with these AI changes sure they
may do that because it's just a math
equation at that point but just like how
we don't know what's going to happen
they also don't know how these changes
are going to impact their revenue it's
unknown yet they may have some ideas
they may have run some tests but they
haven't rolled it out fully to everyone
so it's too hard to make assumptions
that's a very very good point uh very
valid one and you know backed by data so
I don't think I can say anything
um application companies no one is just
gonna squash 10 20 30 billion dollars in
revenue and the reason I say 10 20 is it
wouldn't all go to zero so what portion
do you end up losing that's a lot of
money people don't just make those
changes overnight they think about these
kind of things their plan yeah right
these companies have shareholders
shareholders are looking for Revenue
gains not Revenue being flat they're
looking for Revenue gains and
profitability increase over time they
want more revenue and more profit that's
it that's how the majority of companies
are valuated in the public markets and
if they can't produce that typically
that means your stock is going to go
down
if the stock goes down that means the
leaders the board members they all make
less money as well